Landing page for requesting cloud resources (#22)
dime-worldbank/dimeanalytics: cloud-resources/README.md

# Guide to requesting cloud resources

## Intro - Please read

DIME Analytics will help you request the cloud resources that you need.
Requesting cloud sources at the WB is a very manual process that

> will require you and your team to provide answer to a lot of questions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will require you and your team to provide answers to a lot of questions.
```

> Understanding the dynamics of this process before you start it
> will help you avoid any additional delays.
> Unfortunately, this process is already slow.
> Expect a processing time of about a month for a simple cloud resource,
> and several months for a more complex cloud setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unfortunately, this process is slow.
Expect a processing time of about a month for a simple cloud resource,
and several months for a more complex cloud setup.
Understanding the dynamics of this process before you start it
will help you avoid any additional delays.
```

> Cloud resources paid for by WB funding must be created by the **ITS** unit (WB's IT Services unit).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cloud resources paid for by WB funding must be created by the WB's IT Services unit (**ITS**).
```

If you create your own AWS account and create resources you simply will not be reimbursed.
WB ITS will not create anything

> until the **OIS** unit (WB's Office of Information Security unit)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
until the WB's Office of Information Security (**OIS**)
```

> have reviewed and approved your request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
has reviewed and approved your request.
```

OIS will have many questions that you and your team will have to answer.
DIME Analytics will support your team in answering these questions,

> but will not be able to answer these questions for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but will not be able to answer them for you.
```

OIS and ITS will look primarily at the requirements you need for your cloud service.
They will take into account if you have a specific preference,
but the requirement will always be more important to them.
For example, you can say
"_I would need a server with 32GB RAM (for example AWS EC2) and storage for 200GB data (for example AWS S3)_".

> But it will not be sufficient to say "_I want an EC2 server and a S3 bucket_".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But it will not be sufficient to say "_I want an EC2 server and an S3 bucket_".
```

It is perfectly fine to not know the name of the product you want,
and you can say "I would need a server with 32GB RAM and storage for 200GB data".

## Process for requesting cloud resources

There is not a single place to request cloud resources at the WB.

> DIME Analytics will help you to where to start but

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DIME Analytics will help you find out where to start but
```

to do so we need to understand what you need.
The form below includes questions that, in our experience,
is the first things ITS and OIS will ask about,
unless we include that information in our first communication.
The more thoroughly you fill in this information,
the less likely it will be that OIS/ITS
starts this process down the wrong path.

> When this happens this processes can be delayed by weeks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When this happens, these processes can be delayed by weeks
```

_ITS/OIS always want to know the usecase. They are less interested in economic theory and justification for the study, and more interested in what function the cloud resource will have in your workflow._

_This is also a great place to give an overview on where the data will come from, how it will be ingested in the system, how it will be analyzed and if any data (not just results) will be exported from the system._

### Data storage:

_What type of data will be stored in this system? By "type" we want to know how sensitive the data is. Is it confidential? Does it include name or other PII information (regardless if the data is public or not)?_

_What is the size of the data?
Give a rough estimate in terms of MB, GB, TB.
Remember that if you save both
the original data and intermediate datasets in this cloud resource
you should include the size of all that data in your estimate.
We can usually scale the size of the data storage easily,
but a rough estimate is needed to decide for which type of storage is needed.
Data storage is cheap and it is better to err
on the side of overestimating the storage size._

### Processing power:

_What type of processing power is needed?

> Processing power tend to be the main driver of cost,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Processing power tends to be the main driver of cost,
```

> so it tends to be better to underestimate the processing power need,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
so it is usually better to underestimate the processing power need
```

and scale it up later.
You can express the processing power in terms of "GB of RAM",
by saying "about as fast as a powerful laptop",

> or express your requirement in any other way._

Reviewer 2: maybe we could also add: "by saying how heavy is the data you need to process"

Author: I am happy to add more examples here. But what is an example on how to quantify how "heavy" something is?

Reviewer 2: I was thinking of how many GB/TB weights the data to be processed. A team making the request might not know how many GB of RAM they require or how many times the power of an average laptop they need for a large dataset, but they probably will know how much that dataset weights. So they could also express their requirement with something like: "I'll need to analyze a  100 GB dataset"

Author: ok, that make sense, I was thinking that could be deducted from the data storage size, but not all data might be analyzed at the same time

Author: What about this?

Reviewer 2: nice, that was exactly what I meant 👍

If developing locally,
how will the code be transferred to the cloud resource?
(GitHub is usually a great solution for this.)_

_Where will the code be backed up?
Cloud data storage is backed up
(unless OIS/ITS makes it very clear that it won't be),
but we do not tend to store our code in the data storage.
(GitHub is usually a great solution for this.)_

### Access - humans:

"_Who needs access to this system?
This should include everyone that needs access to run code,
access to upload and download data,
access to view any dashboards etc._

_Are all people that need any type of access WB Staff/ETC/STC?
Will they all at least have WB UPIs?
If anyone who does not have a WB UPI will access this system,
then describe who they are,
and if they will have any type of authentication._"

### Access - code:

"_What access does the code need to have to the internet?
For example, if you are scraping the internet,
describe the pages you will scrape and provide the URLs.
If you need to add more URLs in the future,
you can but it will require another request.
You usually only need to give the domain an not the full URL.
For example, if you intend to scrape a few twitter accounts,

> then you only need to provide the URL_ `https://twittter.com`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
then you only need to provide the URL_ `https://twitter.com`
```
